[EDU-6046] Create Azion Lib docs in English (#1479)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/devtools/azion-lib/usage/jwt.mdx

---
title: Azion `JWT` library
description: >-
  Learn how to use the Azion `JWT` library to manage JSON Web Tokens in your web applications.
permalink: /documentation/products/azion-lib/jwt/
meta_tags: >-
  Azion Lib, edge computing, edge applications, Azion products, JWT
namespace: documentation_azion_lib_jwt
---

The **JWT Library** provides utility functions for signing, verifying, and decoding **JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)**. This library ensures ease of use and security when handling JWTs in web applications.

> 
> ## Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion

---

## Usage
```

### `sign`

Signs a JWT payload with the specified algorithm and private key.

Example:

```typescript
import { sign } from 'azion/jwt';
import type { JWTPayload } from 'azion/jwt';

const privateKey: string = 'your-private-key';
const payload: JWTPayload = { userId: 123, exp: Math.floor(Date.now() / 1000) + 3600 }; // 1 hour expiration
sign(payload, privateKey).then((token: string) => console.log(token)); // Outputs the signed JWT
```

> **Parameters:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Parameters**:
```

> **Parameters:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Parameters**:
```

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `payload` | `JWTPayload` | The payload to be signed. |
| `privateKey` | `SignatureKey` | The private key used for signing. |

> | `alg` | `SignatureAlgorithm` | The algorithm to use for signing (default is `'HS256'`). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `alg` | `SignatureAlgorithm` | The algorithm to use for signing. Default: `'HS256'`). |
```

> **Returns:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Returns**:
```

| Return Type | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| `Promise<string>` | The signed JWT. |

### `verify`

Verifies a JWT using the specified public key and algorithm.

Example:

```typescript
import { verify } from 'azion/jwt';
import type { JWTPayload } from 'azion/jwt';

const publicKey: string = 'your-public-key';
const token: string = 'your-jwt-token';
verify(token, publicKey)
  .then((payload: JWTPayload) => console.log(payload))
  .catch((err) => console.error(err)); // Outputs the payload if verification is successful
```

> **Parameters**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Parameters**:
```

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `token` | `string` | The JWT to verify. |
| `publicKey` | `SignatureKey` | The public key used for verification. |

> | `alg` | `SignatureAlgorithm` (optional) | The algorithm to use for verification (default is `'HS256'`). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `alg` | `SignatureAlgorithm` (optional) | The algorithm to use for verification. Default: `'HS256'`. |
```

> **Returns:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Returns**:
```

| Return Type | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| `Promise<JWTPayload>` | The decoded payload if the token is valid. |

### `decode`

Decodes a JWT without verifying its signature.

```typescript
import { decode } from 'azion/jwt';
import type { JWTPayload, TokenHeader } from 'azion/jwt';

const token: string = 'your-jwt-token';
const { header, payload }: { header: TokenHeader; payload: JWTPayload } = decode(token);
console.log(header, payload); // Outputs the decoded header and payload
```

> **Parameters:**
> 
> | Parameter | Type | Description |
> |-----------|------|-------------|
> | `token` | `string` | The JWT to decode. |
> 
> **Returns:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Parameters**:

| Parameter | Type | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|
| `token` | `string` | The JWT to decode. |

**Returns**:
```

| Return Type | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| `{ header: TokenHeader; payload: JWTPayload }` | The decoded header and payload. |

## Types

The following types define the structure of the data used in the **JWT Library**.

### `JWTPayload`

Defines the structure of the JWT payload.

```typescript
type JWTPayload = {
  [key: string]: unknown;
  exp?: number;
  nbf?: number;
  iat?: number;
};
```

> **Parameters:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Parameters**:
```

| Parameter | Type     | Description                                      |
|-----------|----------|--------------------------------------------------|

> | `key`     | `string` | A custom key-value pair in the payload.         |
> | `exp`     | `number` | The expiration time of the token (in seconds).  |
> | `nbf`     | `number` | The time before which the token is not valid.   |
> | `iat`     | `number` | The time at which the token was issued (in seconds). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `key`     | `string` | A custom key-value pair in the payload.         |
| `exp`     | `number` | The expiration time of the token, in seconds.  |
| `nbf`     | `number` | The time before which the token isn't valid.   |
| `iat`     | `number` | The time at which the token was issued, in seconds. |
```

### `TokenHeader`

Defines the structure of the JWT header.

```typescript
interface TokenHeader {
  alg: SignatureAlgorithm;
  typ?: 'JWT';
}
```

> **Parameters:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Parameters**:
```

| Parameter | Type               | Description                                   |
|-----------|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| `alg`     | `SignatureAlgorithm`| The algorithm used to sign the JWT.          |
| `typ`     | `string` (optional) | The type of the token, typically 'JWT'.      |

> 
> ## Errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion

---

## Errors
```

These are the types of errors that may be returned by the library methods.

### `JwtAlgorithmNotImplemented`

> Thrown when an algorithm is not implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thrown when an algorithm isn't implemented.
```

> Thrown when an algorithm is not implemented.

Author: throw é o verbo que costuma ser usado para erros.

### `JwtTokenInvalid`

Thrown when a JWT is invalid.

### `JwtTokenNotBefore`

Thrown when a JWT is used before its `nbf` claim.

### `JwtTokenExpired`

Thrown when a JWT has expired.

### `JwtTokenIssuedAt`

Thrown when a JWT `iat` claim is in the future.

### `JwtHeaderInvalid`

Thrown when a JWT header is invalid.

### `JwtTokenSignatureMismatched`

> Thrown when a JWT signature does not match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thrown when a JWT signature doesn't match.
```
